Class 1: Class Overview, Project Planning
=========================================

Objectives
----------

Project Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Understand the goal of creating a capstone project
-  Explain the key components of a meaningful project
-  Generate an idea for a group project that meets the provided criteria
-  Identify and assign group roles for the project
-  Describe story mapping, epics, and user stories.
-  Create user stories that clearly identify the targeted user and describe a single use case or action

Prep Work
---------

Class One will cover a lot of different topics.  
Completing the prep work will make lectures easier to understand but allow you to start applying the skills in class.
 
You will need to:

* **Bring 2-3 project ideas** to the first class.  You will share these with your project team.
* **Complete** the :ref:`setup` module to understand what makes a good capstone project. 
* **Learn** about :ref:`user-stories`.
* **Learn** about Working on a team by reading the following:
   *  :ref:`git-workflow`
   * `Development Team Structure <https://stormotion.io/blog/6-tips-on-how-to-structure-a-development-team/>`_
   * `10 Tips for Working On A Dev Team <https://www.codecademy.com/resources/blog/tips-for-working-on-a-dev-team/>`_
* **Learn** about the purpose and expectations of :ref:`liftoff-overview`

Optional reading for working on a team project:

* `Seven Steps for Leading Successful Team Projects <https://www.helloteam.com/seven-steps-for-leading-successful-team-projects>`_
* `How to Assemble a Good Web Development Team <https://www.helloteam.com/seven-steps-for-leading-successful-team-projects>`_

We want to handle as much setup and logistical work as possible now, so we can focus on making progress on our projects for the remainder of the course!

.. tip:: 

   If you are struggling to come up with ideas check out our :ref:`demo-projects`, as well as `project demo videos made by previous students <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8LRJHkTqsg&list=PLs5n5nYB22fIdV_HMkekxx7Yt06lXUptT>`__

In Class
--------

Lecture: How do you ideate, and build a project?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In class today, we will have a lecture and discussion on how to ideate and build a project. 
Most people struggle to build projects, especially their first project. 
In this class, we are going to learn some concepts that aren’t necessarily programming skills but should help manage the building of your project.
 
Before today’s lecture, please take a few minutes to think about how you would build a project. 
Think outside of any code you would need to write.  
What steps would you need to take to **build** your project?   


Team Activity: Get to know your team!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

 
The final project for this class is a collaborative team project.  
You will be placed into project teams by your instructor.  
Each team will have a mentor.  
Your mentor will guide your team through this project. 
However, you are responsible for meeting deadlines and final project completion as a team.


You will meet with your team at each class.   
As a team, you will divide up the work and assign roles.  
This may require you to work together outside of class time.  
Scheduling meetings outside of class time is your responsibility. 

Many development teams contain members in a variety of roles.  
There is a team leader, and then a role for each major section of the team.  
In LiftOff, the Team Leader will be responsible for creating the main 
repo that the whole team will work on, keeping track of how members are working on the 
project, and being aware of upcoming deadlines.  
Other roles should fit the work.  You can assign work by user story or by
where the work lies in the process, such as front-end development compared to database development.

Since we don’t have much work to talk about yet, let’s take some time to get to know each other.

Circle up and go around the team starting with the group’s mentor.

Share the following with your new team:
   * Introduce yourself
   * What you want to get out of this class?
   * Share which part of web development you enjoy the most  
   * Share at least one idea you have for a project for this class 

Before class ends *tonight*:
   * Come up with a team name
   * Appoint a team leader
   * Delegate any other roles, if possible

All other roles should be assigned before meeting for the next class.

Lecture: Story mapping, user stories, and epics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's talk about some of the key ways companies plan
and organize their work while working on technical products. Then, let's
see an example of how to use these tools!

Example: Attendance App User Stories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Watch the instructor take the example idea and write some user stories.

Team Activity: Solidify your project idea & write user stories
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If your team is still undecided about which project you will be working on or your team name, 
now is the time to do so! If you need a few extra minutes to decide on a project, 
let your mentor know and you can talk it out together. 

Remember that this is just the first project of many projects to come! 
If you’ve got a killer idea that might be slightly out of the scope of this class you can 
always put it on hold until after this class ends.  

After choosing a project and having it confirmed by your mentor, 
write some user stories for your idea. 
Consider what you need to do as the developers. 
What does the end user need? What other users might there be for this application?

You must have your mentor approve at least one of your user stories to count towards your attendance today.


Class Regroup: Instructor overview and questions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The instructor should have a few additional user stories for the example
Attendance application idea and will show you what they have to do to
complete the user story!

By the *end of class*, your team should have the following completed:

* The team leader 
   * Set up the project GitHub repository
   * Created a ``README`` and filled it out with the team

* All other members 
   * Forked and cloned the project repo
   * Forked the team leader’s assignment repo
   * Assigned roles/stories before next class
   * Helped fill out the project's ``README`` file


Class 1 Assignment
------------------

Before class 2, complete and turn in :ref:`assignment-project-outline`.


