Class 2
=======

Objectives
----------

Project Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Understand the general flow from idea to code.
-  Understand Wireframes how they are tied to user stories, and how you
   can use them to plan your project.
-  Ability to create Wireframes, and to couple them with User Stories.
-  Understand user story refining, prioritization, and estimation.
-  Utilize project management tools to document and plan project work
-  Describe the basic components of a sprint: planning, kickoff,
   retrospective
-  Estimate user stories as a means of predicting the work that can be
   carried out in a sprint
-  Utilize wireframes to plan the structure of views and user
   interactions

Prep Work
---------

Before coming to class, go through all of the material in the :ref:`Wireframes module <wireframes>`.

In Class
--------

Lecture: How do you visualize a user story?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In class, we will have a lecture and discussion on how to visualize
a user story. The intended user for application will more than likely be
expecting something on their screen to interact with. How can we
plan/design what their screens will look like?

Before lecture today please take a few minutes to think about what your
project looks like to an end user. What do they need to see to use your
application?

Activity: Design your wireframes!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Take this time to draw wireframes for your project check in with your
mentor, talk about your wireframes with other people in your group, you
might find that some of your wireframes look similar!

Lecture: How do you take a user story, and wireframe and turn it into code?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Instructor will give a brief presentation on a Most Viable Product
(MVP), and will give a live demonstration of completing a user story and
wireframe.

Activity: Plan you MVP and check in with your Mentor!
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use this time in class to polish your user stories, and wireframes so
you have an MVP. Share your plans with your Mentor. You should be able
to walk them through how a user interacts with your application by
talking through the user stories, and showing the wireframes.

Regroup: Instructor Demo, and Questions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The Instructor has an MVP for the example Attendance application let’s
watch them work through a user story, wireframe to creating the code and
seeing the final results.

Assignment
----------

Before class 3, complete the :ref:`Project Planning assignment <assignment-project-planning>`.
