Class 5: Live Coding, Project Work
==================================

Objectives
----------

Career Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Know where to find additional live coding practice problems
-  Know how to work through the steps of a live coding session
-  Be able to work with other beginners to continue building live coding
   experiences


Prep Work
---------

In class during week 5, we will be having our live coding assignment. In preparation, 
this week you should continue practicing live coding problems. You can find practice 
problems on many websites:

- `hackerrank.com <https://www.hackerrank.com/>`_
- `codewars.com <https://www.codewars.com/>`_
- `exercism.io <https://exercism.io/>`_
- `leetcode.com <https://leetcode.com/>`_

As with last week, your focus this week should also be on making progress on
your project. It's critical at this juncture for you to gain some
momentum and to leverage your mentor to get unstuck when things become
difficult.

The articles below provide some good perspective and tips on being a
budding developer, getting help, and working with a mentor. *Your main
focus should be on working as much as possible on your project!*

Tasks
^^^^^

- Review the :ref:`live-coding` module again, in preparation for your live coding assignment in class this week.
- Read `How To Be A Good Mentee <https://thegirlpowercode.com/2017/05/02/how-to-be-a-good-mentee/>`_
- Read `How I Learned to Code in my 30s <https://medium.com/udacity/how-i-learned-to-code-in-my-30s-61ad21180208>`_
- Review week 5 of the demo projects: :ref:`Event List Week 5 <el-week-5>` | :ref:`Expense Tracker Week 5 <et-week-5>`

In Class
--------

Your focus for the project module this week, and going forward, should
be on making as much progress on your project as possible. If
you reach a point where you have finished all of your pending user
stories, you should write more.

Activity: Standup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before jumping into the Live Coding assignment we have scheduled for
class today, have your standup meeting. Everyone should each state what
you completed last week and what you are working on this coming week.

Remember that to be marked present on attendance, you must be able to
show *at least one user story you completed* this previous week

Regroup: Live Coding Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For our live coding assignment, you have been randomly assigned to a
different mentor, instructor, or volunteer who will administer your live
coding assignment.

The instructor will introduce the activity, tell you where everyone is
working, and share the list of live coding evaluators and students.

Activity: Live Coding Assignment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

After the instructor introduction, the evaluators will begin calling
names of people they are working with. Keep an ear out for your name to
keep things moving along smoothly.

This assignment will take the majority of class time, however you will
only spend 10-15 minutes performing your individual live coding
assignment. Use the rest of your class time to work on your project, or
other assignments.

You will have a chance to make up this assignment if you don’t pass
today. We want to make sure you are comfortable with this process so you
can retake this assignment as many times as you need. Remember, practice
makes perfect!

Assignment
----------

In class, you will take part in :ref:`assignment-live-coding`.
