Class 6: Interviewing
=====================

Objectives
----------

Career Module
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

-  Understand the parts of an interview: Behavioral and Technical
-  Understand what major categories interviewers are looking for with
   Behavioral questions
-  Answer behavioral questions using the claim evidence model
-  Identify good and bad interview answers


Prep Work
---------

As always continue to work on your project, completing one or more user stories before the next class.

Tasks
^^^^^

- Complete the :ref:`interviewing` module.
- Review week 6 of the demo projects: :ref:`Event List Week 6 <el-week-6>` | :ref:`Expense Tracker Week 6 <et-week-6>`.

In Class
--------

Activity: Standup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before the instructor begins their lesson take time to have your standup
meeting. Go around and talk about the user stories you completed this
previous week, and the user stories you will work on this coming week.

Lecture: Technical Interviews
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In class today we will see a presentation by the instructor. They will
be sharing their experiences with interviewing for technical roles. We
will also go over how to answer questions effectively, and how to
prepare for an interview.

Activity: Technical Interview Practice
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For our activity today you will be paired with another student. You will
take turns asking each other example interview questions, and giving
each other feedback.

Project work time
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There will probably be some time at the end of class today for you to
work on your project. If you are stuck on something, or need help from a
mentor don’t hesitate using this time to make progress on your project.


Assignment
----------

There is no assignment this week. Continue working on your project, and be prepared for the Mock Interview assignment next week.
